# Architecture

c0 is a stack machine, meaning that all parameters are implicit and all destinations are implicit except for stack manipulation and memory access. For comparison, belt machines have an implicit destination and register machines (the most common) have explicit parameters and destination. This means that for many instructions, a stack machine's instruction is entirely composed of an opcode with no extra fields. For c0, half of all instructions only have an opcode field, but the other half (stack manipulation instructions) the instruction contains an opcode and location field. This means that c0 has [two instruction formats](instruction_reference.md).

Since no task switching is required in c0, it is not necessary to be concerned with the amount of state elements in the architecture, except where those elements require random access. Due to this, several stacks are present in the architecture, aside from the main stack on which most of the processor occurs: [the dstack](architecture/dstack.md). For instance, the architecture also has a dedicated [call stack](architecture/cstack.md) so that parameters can be passed orderly to a called routine and be consumed without worrying about the return address. A zero-overhead loop unit is also present that allows automatic conditional branching back to the beginning of the inner-most loop. The stack that contains the various loop parameters is called the [loop stack](architecture/lstack.md).

Not all stacks present in c0 are Last-In First-Out (LIFO). [The dstack](architecture/dstack.md) itself has dedicated copy and rotate instructions so that it is possible to copy or move things to the top of the stack. However, the [dstack](architecture/dstack.md) copy instruction is intended to allow variables to be computed once and copied into place on the stack however many additional times they are required before the final value is consumed. Some values, such as temporaries used multiple times or in loops do not belong on the [dstack](architecture/dstack.md) because they would interfere with the normal consumption and production of variables from routines, forcing them to be moved to memory or rotate other values over them to the top of the stack for usage repeatedly. Since both of these paradigms would be undesirable for performance and binary density, an alternate random-access register-file has been added known as the [tstack](architecture/tstack.md). This stack is a hybrid between a register file and a stack. Values can be pushed onto the top of the [tstack](architecture/tstack.md), but can also be randomly written and read from the top 32 values of the [tstack](architecture/tstack.md). An important feature of the [tstack](architecture/tstack.md) is that when returning from a routine, the [tstack](architecture/tstack.md) is automatically restored to its previous location before the call. Although this may make the [tstack](architecture/tstack.md) sound like an enticing place to put parameters for a function, this is only true in some circumstances and in many others the [tstack](architecture/tstack.md) could become polluted with extra values, and any instruction will ultimately produce its output on the [dstack](architecture/dstack.md), therefore an extra instruction will always be required to load the value onto the tstack anyways, regardless of if that instruction is in the caller, the callee, or another previous callee called from the caller. Due to the above reasons, parameters are always passed by convention via the [dstack](architecture/dstack.md) and not the [tstack](architecture/tstack.md).

Finally, the [ifile](architecture/ifile.md) is a register file containing the interrupt address, enable bit, and selection bit that corresponds to each UARC bus present on the core. Each of the interrupts can be individually enabled, disabled, and set. Using the selection mechanism, several addresses can be enabled, disabled, and set simultaneously to avoid wasting time setting up interrupts or sending/receiving messages to/from multiple targets.
